<h1>Executive Summary</h1>
The Solar and Space Physics communities need a unified data environment 
to facilitate finding, retrieving, formatting, and obtaining basic 
information about data essential for their research. With the 
increasing requirement for data from multiple sources, this need has 
become acute. A unified method to describe data and other resources is 
the key to achieving this unified environment. The SPASE (Space Physics 
Archive Search and Extract) Data Model provides a basic set of terms and 
values organised in a simple and homogeneous way, to facilitate access 
to Solar and Space Physics resources. The SPASE Data Model 
is comparable to the data models developed by the Planetary Data System 
(PDS) and the International Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA) for 
planetary and astronomical data, respectively. The SPASE Model will 
provide the detailed information at the parameter level required for 
Solar and Space Physics applications.

The SPASE consortium is an international team of space and solar 
physicists and information scientists. It first examined many existing 
data models, but found none to be adequate. A set of terms based on a 
half-dozen or so of the most complete of such models was refined based 
on applying the model at various levels of detail to a large number of 
existing products to arrive at the current version. The major creators 
of SPASE-based product descriptions are expected to be domain-based 
Virtual Observatories ("VxOs"), data centers, and individual data and 
model providers. The SPASE Data Model will continue to evolve in a 
controlled way as data and service providers and benefiting researchers 
suggest improvements to extend its framework of common standards. 
Success of the model will be measured by the extent of community support 
and use. 

The present Data Model provides enough detail to allow a scientist to 
understand the content of Data Products (e.g., a set of files for 
3 second resolution Geotail magnetic field data for1992 to 2005), together 
with essential retrieval and contact information. A typical use would 
be to have a collection of descriptions stored in one or more related 
internet-based registries of products; these could be queried with 
specifically designed search engines which link users to the data they 
need. The Data Model also provides constructs for describing components of 
a data delivery system. This includes repositories, registries and services.

This document provides potential users of SPASE with the Data Model for 
review and use. Sections 2 and 3 provide an overview of the origins and 
the concepts of the data model. Section 4 presents the set of elements 
in a hierarchy that shows the natural relationships among them. This is 
followed by usage suggestion and pedagogic examples in Section 5 and 6, and 
by the complete set of definitions of terms and enumerated lists in 
Section 7.
